Logical audio sensor plugin (#401)
ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo: tutorials/logical_audio_sensor.md

At the end of each simulation step, microphones check if audio was detected by any of the sources in the world.
The logical audio plugin does not play actual audio to a device like speakers, but rather simulates audio being played in environments to see if audio could theoretically be heard at a certain location or not.

## Setup

Let's take a look at [logical_audio_sensor_plugin.sdf](https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/blob/1eb4253c6283e711e983be2b398bc7c0411c9408/examples/worlds/logical_audio_sensor_plugin.sdf), which defines a simulation world with 4 models (in this case, boxes) that have an audio object attached to them.
This world attaches a logical audio source to the `red_box` and `blue_box` models, and attaches a logical microphone to the `green_box` and `yellow_box` models.

Let's take a look at the SDF relevant to the source for `red_box` to understand how to define a logical audio source in SDF:

```xml
      <plugin filename="ignition-gazebo-logicalaudiosensorplugin-system" name="ignition::gazebo::systems::LogicalAudioSensorPlugin">
        <source>
          <id>1</id>
          <pose>.5 0 0 0 0 0</pose>

>           <attenuation_function> linear</attenuation_function>

Reviewer: nit: remove space before ` linear`

You can also take a look at the [microphone documentation](https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/blob/1eb4253c6283e711e983be2b398bc7c0411c9408/src/systems/logical_audio_sensor_plugin/LogicalAudioSensorPlugin.hh#L88-L109) for a detailed explanation of the tags embedded in the `<microphone>` tag.

## Testing Source and Microphone Behavior

Let's use the SDF file introduced above (`logical_audio_sensor_plugin.sdf`) to see how sources and microphones interact in an environment.

Start a simulation that uses this SDF file by running the following command in a terminal:

```
ign gazebo logical_audio_sensor_plugin.sdf
```

You should see a something like this:

@image html files/logical_audio_sensor_plugin.png

### Observing Microphone Detections

If a logical microphone can detect a source, it will publish a message to a detection topic.
With the simulator still running, open a new terminal and run the following command to see which microphone detection topics are available:

```
ign topic -l
```

You should see the following detection topics as a part of the output:

```
/model/green_box/sensor/mic_1/detection

> /model/yellow_box/sensor/mic_1/detection

Reviewer: mention that the `_1` suffix is the <id> of the microphone?

```

Let's see if the microphone attached to `yellow_box` can hear anything.
Run the following command:

```

> ign pic -e -t /model/yellow_box/sensor/mic_1/detection

Reviewer: `ign topic`

```

You'll notice that this command produces no output.
This means that this microphone cannot detect any of the sources that are currently playing.

Now, let's see if the microphone attached to `green_box` can hear anything.
Modify the command you just ran to look like this:

```

> ign pic -e -t /model/green_box/sensor/mic_1/detection

Reviewer: `ign topic`

To see which services to call in order to start/stop a service, open a new terminal and run the following command (make sure the simulator is still running):

```
ign service -l
```

If you look through the list of available services, you should see the following audio source services:

```
/model/blue_box/sensor/source_1/play
/model/blue_box/sensor/source_1/stop
/model/red_box/sensor/source_1/play
/model/red_box/sensor/source_1/stop
```

Let's start the source attached to `blue_box`.
This can be done by running the following command, which calls the "play" service for the source attached to `blue_box`:

```
ign service -s /model/blue_box/sensor/source_1/play --reqtype ignition.msgs.Empty --reptype ignition.msgs.Boolean --timeout 1000 --req 'unused: false'
```

Now, if you look back at the terminal that is displaying the output of `green_box`'s microphone detections, we can see that this microphone is detecting audio from `blue_box`'s source (we see `blue_box` as a part of the `key` field):

```
header {
  stamp {
    sec: 255
    nsec: 673000000
  }
  data {
    key: "world/logical_audio_sensor/model/blue_box/sensor/source_1"
  }
}

> data: 0.6

Reviewer: one nice-to-have step here is to let users move the blue box around with the transform control tool and see that once the volume reaches below the specified threshold, the msgs stops being published.

## Setup

Let's take a look at [logical_audio_sensor_plugin.sdf](https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/blob/1eb4253c6283e711e983be2b398bc7c0411c9408/examples/worlds/logical_audio_sensor_plugin.sdf), which defines a simulation world with 4 models (in this case, boxes) that have an audio object attached to them.
This world attaches logical audio sources to the `red_box` and `blue_box` models, and attaches logical microphones to the `green_box` and `yellow_box` models.

Let's take a look at the SDF relevant to the source for `red_box` to understand how to define a logical audio source in SDF:

```xml
      <plugin filename="ignition-gazebo-logicalaudiosensorplugin-system" name="ignition::gazebo::systems::LogicalAudioSensorPlugin">
        <source>
          <id>1</id>
          <pose>.5 0 0 0 0 0</pose>
          <attenuation_function>linear</attenuation_function>
          <attenuation_shape>sphere</attenuation_shape>
          <inner_radius>1.0</inner_radius>
          <falloff_distance>5.0</falloff_distance>
          <volume_level>.8</volume_level>
          <playing>true</playing>
          <play_duration>10</play_duration>
        </source>
      </plugin>
```

> As we can see, we use a `<source>` tag to define the source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we can see, we use a `<source>` tag to define an audio source.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/pull/401/commits/bb50ab5e21d6fec3c54a1e1b7fdd6623fc285908

An explanation of all of the tags can be found in the [plugin documentation](https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/blob/1eb4253c6283e711e983be2b398bc7c0411c9408/src/systems/logical_audio_sensor_plugin/LogicalAudioSensorPlugin.hh#L45-L86), but there are a few important things to point out:
* `<id>` is used to identify this source when operating on it via services (services will be discussed later).
Since a model can have multiple sources and microphones attached to it, each source attached to a particular model must have a unique ID.
This means that no other sources attached to `red_box` can have an ID of 1, but sources attached to other models can have an ID of 1 (assuming that other models don't already have a source with an ID of 1 attached to it).

> * The source's pose is defined relative to the model pose it's attached to - so, in this case, since the `red_box` pose is `(0, 0, 0.5, 0, 0, 0)` relative to the world, and the source pose is `(0.5, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)` relative to the `red_box` pose, the source's pose with respect to the world is `(0.5, 0, 0.5, 0, 0, 0)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The source's pose is defined relative to the model's pose it's attached to. In this case, since the `red_box` pose is `(0, 0, 0.5, 0, 0, 0)` relative to the world, and the source pose is `(0.5, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)` relative to the `red_box` pose, the source's pose with respect to the world is `(0.5, 0, 0.5, 0, 0, 0)`.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/pull/401/commits/bb50ab5e21d6fec3c54a1e1b7fdd6623fc285908

```
/model/blue_box/sensor/source_1/play
/model/blue_box/sensor/source_1/stop
/model/red_box/sensor/source_1/play
/model/red_box/sensor/source_1/stop
```

Let's start the source attached to `blue_box`.
This can be done by running the following command, which calls the "play" service for the source attached to `blue_box`:

```
ign service -s /model/blue_box/sensor/source_1/play --reqtype ignition.msgs.Empty --reptype ignition.msgs.Boolean --timeout 1000 --req 'unused: false'
```

Now, if you look back at the terminal that is displaying the output of `green_box`'s microphone detections, we can see that this microphone is detecting audio from `blue_box`'s source (we see `blue_box` as a part of the `key` field):

```
header {
  stamp {
    sec: 255
    nsec: 673000000
  }
  data {
    key: "world/logical_audio_sensor/model/blue_box/sensor/source_1"
  }
}
data: 0.6
```

You can also echo `yellow_box`'s microphone detection topic, and you should see that this microphone can detect audio from `blue_box`'s source as well.

Since the source attached to `blue_box` was configured with `<play_duration>0</play_duration>` in SDF, it won't stop playing unless we call the stop service on it.

> Before we call the stop service on this source, move `blue_box` around with the transform control tool - you'll see that once `blue_box`'s source volume falls below a microphone's detection threshold (defined in the SDF via `<volume_threshold>`), messages will stop being published to the microphone's detection topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before we call the stop service on this source, move `blue_box` around with the transform control tool. You'll see that once `blue_box`'s source volume falls below a microphone's detection threshold (defined in the SDF via `<volume_threshold>`), messages will stop being published to the microphone's detection topic.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/pull/401/commits/bb50ab5e21d6fec3c54a1e1b7fdd6623fc285908

Let's go ahead and call the stop service to make sure that this source will stop playing.
Move `blue_box` back towards its original position, until you see detection messages being published by the microphones attached to `green_box` and/or `yellow_box`.
Now, go ahead and stop `blue_box`'s source by running the following command:

```
ign service -s /model/blue_box/sensor/source_1/stop --reqtype ignition.msgs.Empty --reptype ignition.msgs.Boolean --timeout 1000 --req 'unused: false'
```

Now, if you look at the output for either microphone topic, you'll notice that no new messages are being published, which makes sense since no audio sources are currently playing.
You can also try to call the play/stop services on the source attached to the `red_box`.
Since the `red_box` has a play duration of 10 seconds, the source will automatically stop playing 10 seconds (of sim time) after starting it, unless you stop it earlier by calling the stop service.

> One other important thing to note is that calling the play service on a source that is already playing does nothing - so, if the source attached to `red_box` is already playing, and you call the play service on it, it will not play for another 10 seconds - the source will still stop at the original 10 second duration mark.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One other important thing to note is that calling the play service on a source that is already playing does nothing. For example, if the source attached to `red_box` is already playing and you call the play service on it, then it will not play for another 10 seconds. The source will still stop at the original 10 second duration mark.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/ignitionrobotics/ign-gazebo/pull/401/commits/bb50ab5e21d6fec3c54a1e1b7fdd6623fc285908
